---
title: 'SVE'
date: 2023-04-19
permalink: /posts/2023/04/sve/
tags:
  - ARM
  - Instruction set
---

### SVE

Scalable Vector Extension (SVE) is a vector extension the A64 instruction set of the Armv8-A architecture. Armv9-A builds on SVE with the SVE2 extension. Unlike other SIMD architectures, SVE and SVE2 do not define the size of the vector registers, but constrains it to a range of possible values, from a minimum of 128 bits up to a maximum of 2048 in 128-bit wide units. Therefore, any CPU vendor can implement the extension by choosing the vector register size that better suits the workloads the CPU is targeting. The design of SVE and SVE2 guarantees that the same program can run on different implementations of the instruction set architecture without the need to recompile the code.

Yitian 710 is a server SoC which implement SVE with 128-bit vector length and is designed for Alibaba cloud.

One can use following program to test the max vector length of SVE implementation.

```
#include <sys/prctl.h>
#include <stdio.h>

int main() {
  int vl_in_bytes = prctl(PR_SVE_GET_VL) & PR_SVE_VL_LEN_MASK;
  printf("%d bits\n", vl_in_bytes * 8);

  int new_vl_in_bytes = 16; // set to 128 bits
  prctl(PR_SVE_SET_VL, new_vl_in_bytes); // should check success/failure

  vl_in_bytes = prctl(PR_SVE_GET_VL) & PR_SVE_VL_LEN_MASK;
  printf("%d bits\n", vl_in_bytes * 8);
}
```

### ARM SVE intrinsics

One can use [intrinsics](https://developer.arm.com/architectures/instruction-sets/intrinsics/#f:@navigationhierarchiessimdisa=[sve]) to write vectorized code.

### SVE Predicate

SVE is a *predicate-centric* architecture.

There 16 Scalable Predicate Registers P0-P15:

- Have 1/8th of a vector register’s length. 1 bit of predicate register is mapped to 1 byte of vector register
- Each predicate element size is 1/8th of a vector element’s length. Only the lowest bit of each predicate
element is significant: 1=active 0=inactive. Other bits are ignored in read and set to zero write
- Predicate registers can be updated by operation status, and initialized by PTRUE and PFALSE
instructions with one of the patterns: fixed length, power of 2, multiple of 3 or, #uimm5, or default all
elements
- Supporting Zeroing(/Z) or Merging(/M) to the inactive vector elements

With predicator, we can maniplate specify (active or not) lanes of vector.

One can use `svcmp` to create a predicate register with desired value.

### Reference

1. [ARM SVE tutorial](https://www.stonybrook.edu/commcms/ookami/support/_docs/ARM_SVE_tutorial.pdf)

2. [Introduction to SVE](https://developer.arm.com/documentation/102476/0100/?lang=en)